---
title: Research
---

## Projects of a more academic nature

<h3>Numerical problem solving interface</h3>
<p>
Just getting started with this one. Part of my computer science PhD research at the University of Utah.
<br>
<ul>
<li> Will update as things progress.
</p>
<br>

<h3>Collective behavior of self-propelled particles</h3>
<p>
Numerical simulations and theoretical analysis of the dynamics of ensembles of self-propelled particles such as camphor pellets on water.
<br>
<ul>
<li><a href="https://github.com/ericheisler/CamphorParticleSimulation">Simulation code repository</a> (Java)</li>
<li>Master's thesis (Hiroshima University): <a href="files/msthesis.pdf">Collective dynamics of camphor particles on water</a> (pdf)</li>
<li><a href="https://journals.aps.org/pre/abstract/10.1103/PhysRevE.85.055201">Swarming of self-propelled camphor boats</a> (<a href="https://arxiv.org/pdf/1112.2576.pdf">preprint pdf</a>) Physical Review E, 2012 Eric Heisler, Nobuhiko J Suematsu, Akinori Awazu, Hiraku Nishimori</li>
<li><a href="https://journals.jps.jp/doi/abs/10.1143/JPSJ.81.074605">Collective motion and phase transitions of symmetric camphor boats</a> (<a href="https://arxiv.org/pdf/1111.6741.pdf">preprint pdf</a>) Journal of the Physical Society of Japan, 2012 Eric Heisler, Nobuhiko J Suematsu, Akinori Awazu, Hiraku Nishimori</li>
<li><a href="https://journals.aps.org/pre/abstract/10.1103/PhysRevE.88.012911">Collective motion of symmetric camphor papers in an annular water channel</a> Physical Review E, 2013 Yumihiko S. Ikura, Eric Heisler, Akinori Awazu, Hiraku Nishimori, Satoshi Nakata</li>
<li><a href="https://pubs.acs.org/doi/pdf/10.1021/jp409172m">Motion with memory of a self-propelled object</a> The Journal of Physical Chemistry C, 2013 Satoshi Nakata, Misato  Hata, Yumihiko  S. Ikura, Eric  Heisler, Akinori  Awazu, Hiroyuki  Kitahata, Hiraku  Nishimori</li>
</ul>
(contact me for a pdf if you don't have access)
</p>
<br>

<h3>Finite difference methods using radial basis functions</h3>
<p>
Exploring the properties of some less-common finite difference methods gives surprising improvements in accuracy without much additional work.
<br>
<ul>
<li><a href="files/h-e_refinement_for_RBFs-paper.pdf">h-epsilon Refinement of Finite Difference Formulas Generated by Radial Basis Functions</a> Eric Heisler, Grady B. Wright</li>
</ul>
</p>
<br>

<h3>National Undergraduate Fellowship in plasma physics</h3>
<p>Theoretical analysis and instrumentation development for the Driven Relaxation Experiment. I developed and investigated mathematical models of relaxed plasma configurations. I also built and tested various sensors and equipment for the experiment.
<br>
<ul>
<li><a href="files/ericsymposiumposter06.png">Poster from American Physical Society 2006 conference</a> Eric Heisler, Scott Hsu</li>
</ul>
</p>